# Bachelor-Projekt
Currently, Astma-Allergi Danmark, as an organization, is responsible for manually collecting pollen data across Denmark. However, there is potential for improvement through the application of AI and machine learning. Due to a lack of collaboration with Astma-Allergi Denmark, this project aims to investigate the collection methods of pollen and develop an attempt to create an image recognition AI that can automate the organization’s manual processes. Given the limited knowledge and cooperation regarding their internal systems, the projekt relies on building networks with external partners to establish a knowledge base. The project’s perspective focuses on creating an open-source machine learning model and process, allowing future researchers to work with machine learning in the field of microscopy. To address our model, we aim to explore various aspects of machine learning, specifically focussing on the YOLOv8 model. We will provide insights into how the pollen counting process can be enhanced and discuss our decisions to create our own dataset. Furthermore the theory behind data preprocessing, digitalizing microscope images, and training an object recognition model will be described. We will aim to explain how we facilitated the development of our final product through the SCRUM framework and an iterative design approach involving multiple prototypes and highlight the learning points derived from them. Based on our product and the development of it, we will critically analyze and discuss the result produced by the model, encompassing both technical and practical evaluations, but also our network and its impact on the project. This project aims to contribute with a machine learning model, a comprehensive explanation of its development, and the knowledge applicable to future projects of a similar nature. Finally, we draw conclusions and provide answers to the key points addressed in our problem-formulation and research questions, aiming to address the research problem effectively.
